# Hybrid Random Forest-Support Vector Machine Approach In Classification Of Protease Substrate Cleavage Site

Proteases are proteolytic enzymes that hydrolyze the amino acids which are essential for all life forms. The protease cleavage happens in specific sites of the protease substrate only. The conventional approach, previously employed to investigate the protease substrate cleavage sites, has low performance and is time-consuming. Support Vector Machine, a machine learning technique, was one of the earlier approaches employed by the previous researcher. Other than that, the missing Feature Selection method while implementing the last study research might be causing overfitting in the result. Thus, the purpose of this study is to investigate the application of the Hybrid Random Forest-Support Vector Machine algorithm in classifying protease substrate cleavage sites. In a hybrid model, the combination of the RF classifier and the SVM classifier permits the attainment of high classification performance metrics while minimizing the required computational time. This method proves to be more effective than other methods of hybridizing the SVM classifier, especially when grid search algorithms are implemented. The first step in data preparation is data pre-processing, including the Feature Selection by Random Forest – RFE. This step is crucial for finding the best number of features based on their importance. The revised datasets are then used for the proposed technique, which is anticipated to produce better results than other machine learning techniques used by previous studies. The performance of the developed model was studied through performance measurements such as confusion matrix, accuracy, AUC Scores, specificity, sensitivity, and F1 Scores. The results were compared between common famous classifiers such as Random Forest (RF), Support Vector Machine (SVM), and Hybrid RF-SVM approach by the previous researchers. The result shows that the Hybrid RF-SVM method has higher performance generally when compared to the machine learning methods in classifying the protease substrate cleavage site in Set A, B, and C, which are 95%, 96%, and 94% accuracy respectively.
